# YP-challenge IEEE ENSTAB SB
# 1- Utlizing the moon's resources:
Scientists and space planners have long acknowledged that extended human residence on the Moon would be greatly aided by the use of local resources. Most lunar rocks are about 40 percent oxygen, so extracting oxygen would not be impossible there are several methods for this project extraction from lunar ilmenite (FeTiO3) with either hydrogen or carbon monoxide, carbothermal reduction of iron oxides and silicates with methane, and  molten regolith electrolysis (MRE) of silicates.Possibly on some moons and asteroids, water is present in the form of mineral hydrates, hydroxyl (-OH) groups on minerals, andor water adsorbed on mineral surfaces. Heating of the minerals can liberate the water which can be electrolyzed to provide a source of oxygen as well.The idea of extracting oxygen from rockets is to provide a clean water so that the astronauts used it during their missions. We can combinate the oxygen with hydrogen to provide water in some certain condition. Adding to that,one promising technology takes advantage of the chemistry of the moon dirt - or regolith - by adding hydrogen, which then reacts with iron oxide in the moon dirt to produce water. Such hydrogen reduction reactors heat the regolith to about 1,832 degrees Fahrenheit (1,000 degrees Celsius) so that the proper chemical reactions can occur.A process known as electrolysis can then split the extracted water into pure hydrogen and oxygen, either for rocket fuel or astronaut air supplies.NASA has already tested a hydrogen reduction reactor on Hawaii's MaunaKea Volcano. During a year-long operation, it produced 1,455 pounds (660 kg) of oxygen from a rocky soil containing 5 percent iron oxide. Now engineers have a second-generation system in the works that can produce 2,205 pounds (1,000 kg).
